We know that companies can raise money by selling stocks
so that we the stockholders or shareholders, same thing,
we own part of that company, which is also known as equity.
So remember when we discussed your balance sheet
earlier in the course, we know that assets
equals liabilities plus equity.
So if a company wants money to help their business grow
they need to raise cash, right?
Which is an asset, they need to raise cash.
So, let's say IBM...
Let's say IBM wants to raise a hundred million dollars.
Well, what they can do is they can either
sell more shares or get a loan.
Okay? They can do that. They can either sell more shares
or get a loan.
Either way, cash will go up by a hundred million.
So cash is an asset, okay?
And here is an IBM share. Okay?
So, what happens is
if you buy one of these shares
IBM gets to put money in their bank account
but the equity goes to you.
So they can either get more cash by raising debt,
or selling part of the company, selling equity, okay?
One share of IBM looked like this many years ago
and what happens now is a lot of this stuff is electronic
but this is an IBM share, right?
And IBM stands for "Industry's Biggest Mistake."
No more Dad humor, I promise. Okay.
So, this is what it looks like.
It's got the name of the person that owned it
at that point in time, some dude from Tulsa, Oklahoma.
Right? And you couldn't forge it
because it had these little dots on it that you can rub off.
Anyway, that's what it looked like.
This is one share of IBM, that's what it looked like.
Now let's say that IBM decides that
if they issued new shares, then some investors would get mad
as the number of shares would go up,
which means that there is the same amount of earnings
divided by more shares.
So the earnings per share would go down, right?
So the price to earnings ratio would look worse, right?
It would actually go up and investors might get upset.
And so IBM might decide, "Okay, we're not gonna issue
"shares then. What we'll do is this:
"We will get a massive loan for a hundred million dollars."
Right? It's a huge amount, a hundred million.
And a bank might not have enough money
to lend them a hundred million dollars.
So what does IBM do?
They decide they will raise debt, not just
from one bank but from many, many, many, many banks
and many, many, many, many people.
So what does that mean? Well, IBM does this
by raising a hundred million dollars
from thousands of investors all over the world
like you and I, by issuing debt to you and I
in the form of a bond.
Yes, we are going to lend money to IBM, right,
and this is called a bond.
So, how does that work, the whole process?
Well, we each give IBM money, and in return we get
interest on the loan, meaning the bond to IBM.
Well, in the old days, when you would buy a stock
you would get the stock's certificate as proof,
which I just showed you, that you own the stock.
For example, if you invested in IBM in the 1970s,
they would send a certificate to your house
like the one I just showed you.
Today, you get electronic ownership of a stock
and so you actually don't get a certificate like that,
as cool as it looks like.
Now, the reason I wanted to show you this stock certificate
is because it's easier for you to visualize
and understand how bonds work.
So, we're now gonna put some more layers on this, okay?
So, this here is a bond from 1913.
It's a New York central real estate bond.
And you could actually buy these things
for really cheap on eBay, right?
And you see these things here?
These are all coupons.
Like, real money. You clip these coupons off
and you get money for it, okay? There's lots of coupons.
Lots and lots of coupons. I'll explain what this means.
And the railroad company probably issued this bond
so they could build more train tracks,
which costs a lot to do.
Alright.
And this here, oh the coupon just fell, dammit. Okay.
This here is an example of a government bond,
with coupons. Okay? The coupons just fell off.
This was, these two were here, there's actually
two coupons here that you would clip off. Okay?
And this is a Russian bond, I bought it over eBay,
it came from Latvia the other day,
and if anybody can read what this means, please tell me.
It looks like it's from 1916, so it was probably used
to fund World War I, I think.
So, anybody speak Russian out there, put it in the Q&A field
for us to understand. Okay. Anyway.
That's an example of an international bond.
And this one here actually is from the city of Los Angeles.
Okay? So this is a Los Angeles issued one from 1927.
And there's lots and lots of coupons here,
bear with me please. Ah! Sorry.
Yeah, these are little coupons on the side here.
It's in remarkably good condition
for a piece of paper from the 1920s.
So, what you would do, I'll actually do it right now,
is, you would rip one of these coupons off.
They cut them, actually, there's no dotted line,
but you cut it off, and then you submit it
and you get a coupon bond for it.
And they actually wrote on them, "nine dollars,
"19 dollars, 67 dollars." That's really interesting.
And you can't see that closely, or maybe you can,
I'll hold it against my shirt, but it says "canceled."
Right? The dots through it. I always thought canceled
had two L's, apparently it has one.
So anyways this is a bond issued by the state of California.
Okay? It's pretty cool. The city of Los Angeles.
So, traffic is a nightmare in L.A., so they clearly
didn't raise enough money, but you can see here
that the coupons here are cashed every six months.
I can see the dates up closely, you can't, sorry.
But anyway, in the early 1980s,
I'll give you another example here,
this one's more interesting I think. Okay.
In the early 1980s the Walt Disney Corporation
wanted to build a massive theme park in France.
And I remember it was very controversial
for many reasons at the time, one of which was the cost.
And the cost was going to be insanely high
and Disney didn't have the money. Right?
And so they could've issued more stock, more shares
to investors in the stock market, issue more equity.
But the problem is a lot of investors
would've been upset because what would happen is
it would dilute how much money Disney makes per share.
So what'd Disney do instead?
Well, what they did was they did a debt offering.
They issued Euro Disney bonds
in order to finance this massive investment.
It's the only way they could finance it!
Right? And you see the coupons back here.
Right? I don't know if you can see that,
Chris, maybe in post-production zoom in there, okay?
Okay, now you understand what coupons are for, right?
You'd buy a bond and then you'd mail in these coupons,
or give a coupon to a bank and then you'd get cash, right?
Now, that assumes the companies or the government agencies
have money to give to you for these coupons
every six months or so, okay?
And so with this bond here issued by
the New York Central Railroad Company.
It's a thousand dollar bond, see here.
A thousand dollars paying four and a half percent per year.
Right? That means that you get
four and half percent interest on it.
And what they would do is they would pay you
the equivalent of that every six months.
And so once you clipped all these coupons off,
see, they're numbered here, where it looks like cash.
Then what happens is you get back your initial investment
which, in this case, is a thousand dollars.
That's the par value, okay?
So, anyway, that's how that one works.
They're all quite similar, but now you know
why they call it coupons, it's kind of interesting.
Kind of interesting.
Okay, there's a good reason why I showed you
these bond documents.
Because it's going to make it way easier
and more interesting for me and for you
to learn how bonds work.
Bear in mind with me for one minute, please, here, okay?
Now we understand how bonds work that have coupons,
because we give a government like Russia or a company like
the New York Railroad Company or Disney money, okay?
We give them money and in return they give us
a piece of paper that says, "You gave us this much money
"and you can get all that money back that you gave us
"in a certain number of years, and you know what?
"As a way to say thank you for investing with us,
"you can take a coupon off every six months and make money
"okay? And that's a dividend coupon. Okay? So.
"When the bond expires, or when it's mature,
"then you get your entire amount of money back."
Okay? That's part of the contract
that you see in these documents, right?
All these little disclosures and they were
hard to read back then because
that's actually cursive writing.
It's hard to read. Anyway.